README.md, before:

# About

This is a fork of awesome [Kubernetes The Hard Way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way) by Kelsey Hightower and is geared towards using it on AWS. Also thanks to [@slawekzachcial](https://github.com/slawekzachcial) for his [work](https://github.com/slawekzachcial/kubernetes-the-hard-way-aws) that made this easier.

There are currently no tool upgrades as compared to the original.

# Kubernetes The Hard Way

This tutorial walks you through setting up Kubernetes the hard way. This guide is not for people looking for a fully automated command to bring up a Kubernetes cluster. If that's you then check out [Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine), [AWS Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) or the [Getting Started Guides](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup).

Kubernetes The Hard Way is optimized for learning, which means taking the long route to ensure you understand each task required to bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster.

> The results of this tutorial should not be viewed as production ready, and may receive limited support from the community, but don't let that stop you from learning!

## Target Audience

The target audience for this tutorial is someone planning to support a production Kubernetes cluster and wants to understand how everything fits together.

## Cluster Details

Kubernetes The Hard Way guides you through bootstrapping a highly available Kubernetes cluster with end-to-end encryption between components and RBAC authentication.

* [kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) v1.21.0
* [containerd](https://github.com/containerd/containerd) v1.4.4
* [coredns](https://github.com/coredns/coredns) v1.8.3
* [cni](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) v0.9.1
* [etcd](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd) v3.4.15

## Labs

This tutorial assumes you have access to the [Amazon Web Service](https://aws.amazon.com/). If you are looking for GCP version of this guide then look at : [https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way).

* [Prerequisites](docs/01-prerequisites.md)
* [Installing the Client Tools](docs/02-client-tools.md)
* [Provisioning Compute Resources](docs/03-compute-resources.md)
* [Provisioning the CA and Generating TLS Certificates](docs/04-certificate-authority.md)
* [Generating Kubernetes Configuration Files for Authentication](docs/05-kubernetes-configuration-files.md)
* [Generating the Data Encryption Config and Key](docs/06-data-encryption-keys.md)
* [Bootstrapping the etcd Cluster](docs/07-bootstrapping-etcd.md)
* [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Control Plane](docs/08-bootstrapping-kubernetes-controllers.md)
* [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](docs/09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md)
* [Configuring kubectl for Remote Access](docs/10-configuring-kubectl.md)
* [Provisioning Pod Network Routes](docs/11-pod-network-routes.md)
* [Deploying the DNS Cluster Add-on](docs/12-dns-addon.md)
* [Smoke Test](docs/13-smoke-test.md)
* [Cleaning Up](docs/14-cleanup.md)

Commit message:

added commentary to readme, future changes to the project are on the way

README.md, after:

My name is Earnest Abrom and I undertook this project as a way to learn more about Kubernetes and also to display my skillset of setting up Kubernetes from scratch.  I took me 2 days to complete  this and I am currently working on transforming this project to use Terraform for Iac and Ansible for configuration of the Master and Worker nodes.  I'll be updating this project weekly.  

# About

This is a fork of awesome [Kubernetes The Hard Way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way) by Kelsey Hightower and is geared towards using it on AWS. Also thanks to [@slawekzachcial](https://github.com/slawekzachcial) for his [work](https://github.com/slawekzachcial/kubernetes-the-hard-way-aws) that made this easier.  

There are currently no tool upgrades as compared to the original.

# Kubernetes The Hard Way

This tutorial walks you through setting up Kubernetes the hard way. This guide is not for people looking for a fully automated command to bring up a Kubernetes cluster. If that's you then check out [Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine), [AWS Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) or the [Getting Started Guides](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup).

Kubernetes The Hard Way is optimized for learning, which means taking the long route to ensure you understand each task required to bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster.

> The results of this tutorial should not be viewed as production ready, and may receive limited support from the community, but don't let that stop you from learning!

## Target Audience

The target audience for this tutorial is someone planning to support a production Kubernetes cluster and wants to understand how everything fits together.

## Cluster Details

Kubernetes The Hard Way guides you through bootstrapping a highly available Kubernetes cluster with end-to-end encryption between components and RBAC authentication.

* [kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) v1.21.0
* [containerd](https://github.com/containerd/containerd) v1.4.4
* [coredns](https://github.com/coredns/coredns) v1.8.3
* [cni](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) v0.9.1
* [etcd](https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd) v3.4.15

## Labs

This tutorial assumes you have access to the [Amazon Web Service](https://aws.amazon.com/). If you are looking for GCP version of this guide then look at : [https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way).

* [Prerequisites](docs/01-prerequisites.md)
* [Installing the Client Tools](docs/02-client-tools.md)
* [Provisioning Compute Resources](docs/03-compute-resources.md)
* [Provisioning the CA and Generating TLS Certificates](docs/04-certificate-authority.md)
* [Generating Kubernetes Configuration Files for Authentication](docs/05-kubernetes-configuration-files.md)
* [Generating the Data Encryption Config and Key](docs/06-data-encryption-keys.md)
* [Bootstrapping the etcd Cluster](docs/07-bootstrapping-etcd.md)
* [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Control Plane](docs/08-bootstrapping-kubernetes-controllers.md)
* [Bootstrapping the Kubernetes Worker Nodes](docs/09-bootstrapping-kubernetes-workers.md)
* [Configuring kubectl for Remote Access](docs/10-configuring-kubectl.md)
* [Provisioning Pod Network Routes](docs/11-pod-network-routes.md)
* [Deploying the DNS Cluster Add-on](docs/12-dns-addon.md)
* [Smoke Test](docs/13-smoke-test.md)
* [Cleaning Up](docs/14-cleanup.md)
